---
layout: post
title: "Coq Fundamentals: Introduction"
date: 2021-08-03 00:00:00
Tag: Coq
---

There are many great resources and tutorials for beginners to build basic skills with
Coq. I myself started with Pierce's [Logical Foundations](https://softwarefoundations.cis.upenn.edu/lf-current/index.html),
which I highly recommend.

At a certain point however, once the beginner finds themselves comfortable with the basic 
assortment of tools provided by Coq, they may start to wonder what these black-box tactics 
are doing under the hood. For this purpose, there appear to be much fewer resources
available.

This is the position I find myself in. In particular, I'm bothered by the ubiquitous 
tactics which are solving goals that I wouldn't know how to solve manually. So, I plan 
on digging into these tactics by inspecting their output, and implementing some of my 
own tactics to mirror their behavior.

While this series is primarily about *my* quest to understand the important underlying 
concepts of Coq, I'm writing all of this up in the hopes that someone else might fight 
them useful. I'm trying to write a guided tour of the darker corners of Coq that I wish 
I had when I began this endeavor.

Besides, as the common saying goes: "If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand
it well enough." Writing this down helps me clarify my own thoughts, and ensure the 
concepts have sunk in.

For the purpose of this series, I assume the reader has a basic understanding of Coq,
consistent with having finished the Logical Foundations book. That is, I assume the reader is 
familiar with the common tactics and commands, as well as a general comfort with functional 
programming.

If you're still with me, I appreciate you indulging this clumsy adventure, and I hope 
I can impart some portion of my revelations on you as well.

Each post started as a Coq file, and was [translated](https://github.com/gjurgensen/coqToMd) 
to this prettier blog format. I suggest the reader download the original Coq file and 
follow along in their preferred Coq editor. That way, you can see the proof state or 
experiment with your own modifications. The corresponding Coq file will be linked at the top of each post.

Without further ado, let's jump in to our first topic: equality.

## Contents
- [Introduction](/coq fundamentals/2021/08/03/intro.html)
- [Equality](/coq fundamentals/2021/08/03/eq_refl.html)
  - [Reflexivity](/coq fundamentals/2021/08/03/eq_refl.html)
  - [Discriminate](/coq fundamentals/2021/08/03/inequality.md)
  - [Rewrite](/coq fundamentals/2021/08/03/rew.html)
  - [Inversion](/coq fundamentals/2021/08/03/inversion.md)